---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Mercury Layer Protocol

## Preliminaries

The server and each owner are required to generate private keys securely. Owners are required to verify ownership of UTXOs (this can be achieved via a client interface, and requires connection to an Electrum server or fully verifying Bitcoin node). Elliptic curve points (public keys) are depicted as upper case letters, and private keys as lower case letters. Elliptic curve point multiplication (i.e. generation of public keys from private keys) is denoted using the `.` symbol. The generator point of the elliptic curve standard used (e.g. secp256k1) is denoted as `G`. All arithmetic operations on secret values (in Zp) are modulo the field the EC standard.  

In addition, a public key encryption scheme is required for blinded private key information sent between parties. This should be compatible with the EC keys used for signatures, and ECIES is used. The notation for the use of ECIES operations is as follows: `Enc(m,K)` denotes the encryption of message `m` with public key `K = k.G` and `Dec(m,k)` denotes the decryption of message `m` using private key `k`.

All transactions are created and signed using segregated witness, which enables input transaction IDs to be determined before signing. 

## Initiation

A user wants to create a statechain for a specific amount of bitcoin, and they request that the server initialize the process. To begin, the user must provide a valid `token_id` (UUID), which will be listed in the the server token database. This `token_id` may be generated by the server on payment of a fee (via a separate lighning or bitcoin payment). 

1. The initiator (Owner 1) generates a private key: `o1` (the UTXO private key share) and `auth_privkey` and `auth_pubkey`.
2. Owner 1 then calculates the corresponding public key of the share `O1`: `O1 = o1.G`
3. Owner 1 requests a key share generation from the server with a valid `token_id` and provides `auth_pubkey` (which is used to authenticate subsquent communication with the server). 
4. The server then generates a private key: `s1`, calculates the corresponding public key and sends it to Owner 1: `S1 = s1.G` along with a `statechain_id` (UUID). The server then stores `s1` indexed with `statechain_id`. 
5. Owner 1 then adds the public key they receive to their own public key to obtain the shared (aggregated) public key `P` (which corresponds to a shared private key of `p = o1 + s1`): `P = O1 + S1`
6. Owner 1 creates and broadcasts a funding transaction (`Tx0`) to pay an amount `A` to the address corresponding to `P`. This defines the UTXO `TxID:vout` (the outpoint). 
8. Owner 1 creates an unsigned *backup transaction* (`Tx1`) that pays the `P` output of `Tx0` to address of `O1`, and sets the `nLocktime` to the initial future block height `h0` (where `h0 = cheight + hinit`, `cheight` is the current Bitcoin block height and `hinit` is the initial locktime specified by the server). The `nSequence` number is set to zero. 
9. Owner 1 the utilises the server to generate a valid signature on `Tx1` as follows:

### Signature generation

To generate a signature on `Tx1`, the owner first computes the sighash `m1`. 
Owner 1 then generates a random ephemeral nonce `r2_1` and blinding nonce `b1` and computes `R2_1 = r2_1.G`
Owner 1 then requests a partial signature from the server which generates a random `r1_1` and computes `R1_1 = r1_1.G`. `R1_1` is returned to Owner 1. 
Owner 1 then computes `R_1 = R1_1 + r2_1.G + b1.P`, `e1 = SHA256(P||R_1||m1)` and `c1 = e1 + b1` and sends `c1` to the server. 
The server then computes the partial signature `sig1_1 = r1_1 + c1.s1` and sends to Owner 1. 
Owner 1 computes `sig2_1 = r2_1 + c1.o1` and `sig_1 = sig1_1 + sig2_1`. The full signature `(sig_1,R_1)` is then added to `Tx1`. 

10. `Tx1` is verified and stored by Owner 1. 
11. The server then adds the public key `S1` to the list of current statechain server key shares and publishes. 

## Key Reassignment

Owner 1 wishes to transfer the value of the coin `A` to a new owner (Owner 2). The protocol then proceeds as follows:

### Sender

1. The receiver (Owner 2) generates a statechain private key share `o2`. They then compute the corresponding public key `O2 = o2.G` along with a new `auth_pubkey`. 
2. `O2||auth_pubkey` then represents the Owner 2 'address' and is communicated to Owner 1 (or published) in order for them to 'send' the ownership.
3. Owner 1 then creates a new unsigned backup transaction `Tx2` paying the output of `Tx0` to address of `O2`, and sets the `nLocktime` to `h0 - (n-1)*c` where `c` is the confirmation interval and `n` is the owner number (i.e. 2).  The `nSequence` number is set to zero. 
4. Owner 1 cooperates with server to generate a blind partial signature on `Tx2` as follows:

### Signature generation

To generate a signature on `Tx2`, the owner first computes the sighash `m2`. 
Owner 1 then generates a random ephemeral nonce `r2_2` and blinding nonce `b2` and computes `R2_2 = r2_2.G`
Owner 1 then requests a partial signature from the server which generates a random `r1_2` and computes `R1_2 = r1_2.G`. `R1_2` is returned to Owner 1. 
Owner 1 then computes `R_2 = R1_2 + r2_2.G + b2.P`, `e2 = SHA256(P||R_1||m1)` and `c2 = e2 + b2` and sends `c2` to the server. 
The server then computes `sig1_2 = r1_2 + c2.s1` and sends to Owner 1. 
Owner 1 computes `sig2_2 = r2_2 + c2.o1` and `sig_2 = sig1_2 + sig2_2`. The full signature `(sig_2,R_2)` is then added to `Tx2`.

4. The server generates a random key `x1` and sends it to Owner 1. 
5. Owner 1 then computes the blinded transfer value `t1 = o1 + x1`. 
9. Owner 1 then concatinates the `Tx0` outpoint with the Owner 2 public key (`O2`) and signs it with their key `o1` to generate `SC_sig_1`. 
10. Owner 1 then create a transfer message containing five objects:
	a. All previous signed backup transactions: `Tx1` and `Tx2`
	b. `SC_sig_1`
	c. `t2`
	d. `statechain_id`
11. Owner 1 then encrypts the message with the reciver `auth_pubkey` and sends to the receiver (can be via server relay). 

> At this point the Owner 1 has sent all the information required to complete the reassignment to Owner 2 and is no longer involved in the protocol. Owner 2 then verifies the correctness and validity of the objects. 

### Receiver

1. Receiver (owner 2) decrypts the transfer message with their `auth_privkey`. 
2. Owner 2 verifies that the latest backup transaction pays to `O2` and that the input (`Tx0`) is unspent and pays to `P`. 
3. Owner 2 takes the list of previous `K` backup transactions (`Txi i=1,...,K`) and for each one `i` verifies:
	a. The signature is valid. 
	b. The `nLocktimes` are decremented correctly (i.e. the latest `TxK` is the lowest).
	c. The transaction has been constructed exactly according to the sender implimentation.
	d. That the latest `nLocktime` is not expired accordning to the current block height. 
5. Owner 2 queries server for 1) The total number of signatures generated for `statechain_id`: `N` and 2) Current server public key share: `S1`. 
6. Owner 2 then verifies that `K = N` and then `O1 + S1 = P`

The server key share update then proceeds as follows:

5. Owner 2 then computes `t2 = t1 - o2`. 
6. Owner 2 then sends `t2` to the server. 
7. The server then updates the private key share `s2 = s1 + t2 - x1 = s1 + x1 + o1 - o2 - x1 = s1 + o1 - o2`

> `s2` and `o2` are now key the private key shares of `P = (s2 + o2).G` which remains unchanged (i.e. `s2 + o2 = s1 + o1`), without anyone having learnt the full private key. Provided the server deletes `s1`, then there is no way anyone but the current owner (with `o2`) can spend the output.

8. The server then adds the public key `S2` to the list of active key shares and publishes. 

## Orderly Closure

The current owner of a coin can at any time spend the statechain by simply creating a transaction paying to any specified address. The server cannot identify a closure, but the coin can no longer be transferred to a new owner because the server will have produced an additional signature that cannot be verified as a valid backup by a receiver. 

Closure proceeds as follows:

1. The current owner (e.g. Owner 2) creates an unsigned transaction `TxW` that spends `Tx0` to a closure address `W`.
2. The owner then co-signs this transaction with the server (as above).  `TxW` is broadcast. 
3. The owner then sends the server a closure notification (with their current `statechain_id`) that the coin is withdrawn so the server can remove the coin public from the published key share list. 

## Backup closure

In the case that the server disappears or does not cooperate with the current owner, the current owner can reclaim their funds to an address they control by submitting their backup transaction when the `nLocktime` is reached. 
